So, I am going to kind of take
this first spin real quick, so
I have this very kind of
simple example right here.
Where we have of and from, and one of
the reasons we're taking a tour here is
you're gonna try this out yourself in
a second in a slightly different file,
but kinda walk you through
what we're gonna do here.
One easy way to test observables
is to basically go ahead and
collect them all in an array, right?
So here we have result,
we don't have any code signifying
what would actually happen here.
Again, to use observable you can
set it up but nothing happens with
an observable until you subscribe to it,
so observables are effectively lazy.
You can establish when you say
this is you have 1, 2, 3, 4, but
nothing is happening to those
values until you subscribe to it.
And then it activates and
we'll go run through all of these things,
each time you subscribe to it, you get
a fresh version of the observable and
we'll see how to like deal
with that a little bit later.
And it will run through each one of those
values, right, and in case of of or
from you're gonna get it
either immediately or
in the case of a promise
when the promise resolves.
Later on we will see intervals, and
events, and stuff along those lines,
it'll be, whenever the thing happens.
All right, so, what will this look like?
So we could say,
if we wanted to use of in this case,
we could say observable and now clearly
that's not gonna put
anything into my result.
So this test would fail if I
ran it immediately, and so
what we need to do here
is say observable and
then we'll subscribe to it and
we'll get each value one by one.
Right, and this is kinda cool cuz it
means that you can create an observable,
whether it be from a promise from your
API, whether it be from a given event.
And you can separate the creation of the
stream and what you want to do with it,
right, which means you can
kind of create this and yeah,
this is obviously a super simple example.
But you could create this export
it in a given JavaScript module,
import the idea of creating a stream
multiple places, and then how you use it
throughout your application can vary
depending on what you need to do, right?
So, you can have one observable
listening to mouse clicks just on
the document itself, or keystroke or
something along those lines.
And different parts of your application,
whether it's dismissing drop-down menus or
models or something along those
lines can listen to that one event.
It's not okay, cool, this modal loaded,
let me add an event listener and
clean it up when the modal goes away.
I can literally just have this stream and
the subscription is separated from
the creation of the stream itself.
So I can run this first test and
see that's running and this one passes,
right, and again from is very similar in
this case and so we could say observable.
Well, this point we'll just use
the array instead, right, and
you could write a generator in here,
you could do whatever you want.
We'll just grab this code from up here,
and
we'll put the same values
into the array and
this point we will not skip the test,
and we have both of them in place.
So this is the kind of simplest
possible version of this that we can
use to understand how exactly go
about creating some of these mark.
>> [INAUDIBLE] events,
does the expect method execute
before the observable results?
>> Yes [LAUGH] yes,
that is a great segue, right?
So yeah, one thing, so
the question was is for
asynchronous events doesn't
just get angry and ask for
some kind of way to know that
we're done doing whatever we
need to do in order to run the actual
expectation and just, right?
Yeah, just gets angry because
the asynchronous events will happen after
the test closes.
So pop quiz, on observable,
we have next forgiving event,
that's what we're using
put things into an array.
What do we have to know when we're
totally done with the observable?
>> Complete.
>> Complete, right, and
so what we could theoretically do here
is if we only care about the next value
we just put in that function, right?
If we need to wait for
the observable to be done to do something,
then we can use complete and
that's when we would run our expectation.
So in here we have an exercise
with creating observables, and
the reason why I love that question so
much is kind of towards the bottom we
have some situations where we're
we're creating it from a promise.
So ingest if it is an asynchronous test
you can pass it a done as an argument in
the it statement and then you call
it whenever you are in fact done.